##  Learning Java Notes and References 
Senal Bulumulle 
______ 
**Table of Contents** 
- [Learning Java Notes and References](#learning-java-notes-and-references)
	- [Characteristics of Java](#characteristics-of-java)
	- [Basic Java Terminology](#basic-java-terminology)
	- [A Main Class Example](#a-main-class-example)
	- [Methods](#methods)
______
### Characteristics of Java 
* Java is Simple 
* Java is Object-Oriented 
* Java is Distributed 
* Java is Interpreted 
* Java is Robust 
* Java is Secure 
* Java is Architecture-Neutral 
* Java is Portable 
* Java Performance 
* Java is Multithreaded 
* Java is Dynamic    
_____
### Basic Java Terminology
 * Java  Virtual Machine (JVM) - The runtime engine of the Java Platform which allows programs written in Java, or other languages compiled in  Java bytecode to run. 
 * There are 3 phases
    1. Write the Program like a Java Programmer 
    2. The Javac compiler compiles the program 
    3. The JVM executes (runs) the bytecode generated by the compiler (program run phase)


* Even though each operating system has different JVM, the output after it runs (execution of byte code) will be the same across over all operating systems 

* Bytecode - The compiled format of Java Programs 
  * Bytecode is saved in a .class file by the compiler. 

* Java Development Kit (JDK)- A Set of tools that are needed to compile and run a Java Program 
* Java Runtime Environment (JRE)- Set of Software tools including JVM, Browser Plugins, an applet support. It helps to run a Java Program, but not to compile it. 
____



### A Main Class Example
* It is the starting point for a Java Program 
* It can accept arguments from the command line. 


```java
public class Hello {
    public static void main (String []args){
        // Entry point to the program 
        // Write code here: 
        System.out.println("Hello world");
    }
}
```
### Methods 
*  Definition: Things that you need to be done.
  * printMonthBody = print the body under the title .
  * printMonthTitle = printing the title month.
  * getMonthName = selecting the name of the month.
  * getMonthName = selecting the name of the month.
    * 1 = Jan
    * 2 = Feb
    * 3 = Mar
    * 4 = April
  * getStartDay = getting the 1st of each month and what day.